---
layout: post
title: >
  The Data Dojo: A Power BI Community of Practice (Part 1)
author: JamesDBartlett3
# feature-img: "assets/img/pexels/soundwaves.jpg"
# thumbnail: "assets/img/pexels/___.png"
tags: [Power BI, Community of Practice, Data Dojo]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
draft: true
---



I joined [Des Moines University](https://dmu.edu) as a Senior Business Intelligence Analyst in December of 2020. One of the first things I noticed whenever I got to know a colleague from another department was that many of them were eager to begin analyzing the data generated by their individual business units, but didn't know where to start. Of course, there are tons of excellent books, videos, blogs, and self-paced e-learning resources about Power BI and data analytics in general, but I've found that the best way to *learn* is to *do*, and the best way to *do* is *together*.
<!--more--> 
The natural solution was to establish an inter-disciplinary Power BI [Community of Practice (CoP)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Community_of_practice) at DMU, which is exactly what we are now in the process of doing. We call our CoP the **DMU Data Dojo**, and I'm excited to share our journey with you. This is the first in a series of posts that will document our challenges, progress, setbacks, and victories. I hope you'll join us on this adventure!

{% include aligner.html images="pexels/___.png" column="auto" %}

# Founding the Data Dojo

From the very beginning, I knew that there were varying levels of Power BI experience among the faculty and staff at DMU. Some had never even heard of Power BI, while others had been using it for years. I also knew that I didn't have the time or resources to teach everyone everything they needed to know about Power BI. Additionally, I knew that I didn't want to be the only one teaching, so I decided to recruit some of my colleagues with existing Power BI skills to help me out. And finally, I knew that a hierarchical structure would only hinder the CoP's ability to grow and adapt organically, so I decided to make it a flat, horizontal structure. Here's how it works:

1. Anyone who is interested in learning how to use Power BI to help their business unit make better use of its data can become a Data Dojo member.
2. Members are welcome to attend as many (or as few) of our workshops as they like.
3. Members are encouraged to share their Power BI knowledge and experience with the group, though no one is required to do so.
4. We facilitate the sharing of Power BI knowledge primarily through two channels:
  * Interactive workshops (either in-person or online via Zoom).
  * A private Yammer group where members can ask questions, share ideas, and collaborate on projects.
5. The only "stupid question" in the Data Dojo is the one that goes unasked.
6. There are no instructors or students in the Data Dojo; We are all here to learn from each other.
7. Members vote on the topics they'd like to learn about, as well as the dates and times for the workshops where those topics will be covered.

