---
layout: post
title: >
  The Data Dojo: A Power BI Community of Practice (Part 1)
author: JamesDBartlett3
feature-img: "assets/img/data-dojo/matrix_aikido.png"
thumbnail: "assets/img/data-dojo/web-3706725.jpg"
tags: [Power BI, Community of Practice, Data Dojo, Center of Excellence, Data Literacy, Knowledge Sharing]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
draft: true
---

I joined [Des Moines University](https://dmu.edu) as a Senior Business Intelligence Analyst in December of 2020, and one of the first things I noticed whenever I got to know a colleague from another department was that many of them were eager to begin analyzing the data generated by their individual business units, but didn't know where to start. Of course, there are tons of excellent books, videos, blogs, and self-paced e-learning resources about Power BI and data analytics in general, but I've found that the best way to **learn** is to **do**, and the best way to **do** is **together**.
<!--more--> 

{% include aligner.html images="data-dojo/together-2450090-cropped.jpg" column="auto" %}

The natural solution was to establish an inter-disciplinary Power BI [Community of Practice (CoP)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Community_of_practice) at DMU, which is exactly what we are now in the process of doing. We call our CoP the **Data Dojo**, and I'm excited to share our journey with you. This is the first in a series of posts that will document our challenges, progress, setbacks, and victories. I hope you'll join us on this adventure!

# Founding the Data Dojo

From the very beginning, I knew that there were varying levels of Power BI experience among the faculty and staff at DMU. Some had never even heard of Power BI, while others had already been using it for several years. I also knew that I didn't have the time or energy to teach everyone everything they needed to know about Power BI on an individual basis. Additionally, I knew that I couldn't be the only one teaching if I wanted to have an organization-wide impact. And finally, I knew that a hierarchical structure would only hinder the CoP's ability to grow and adapt organically. So, with all of that in mind, I created our Data Dojo with these founding principles:

1. Anyone who is interested in learning how to make better use of their data can become a Data Dojo member.
2. Members are welcome to attend as many (or as few) of our workshops as they like.
3. Members are encouraged to share their knowledge and experience, though no one is required to do so.
4. We facilitate the sharing of knowledge primarily through two channels:
  * Interactive workshops (in-person, virtual, or hybrid).
  * A private [Yammer](https://www.yammer.com) group where members can ask questions, share ideas, and collaborate on projects.
5. There are no instructors or students in the Data Dojo; We are all here to learn from each other.
6. The only "stupid question" in the Data Dojo is the one that goes unasked.
7. Members vote on the topics they'd like to learn about, as well as the dates and times for the workshops where those topics will be covered.
8. Members are encouraged to network with each other, form their own ad-hoc groups, and collaborate on projects together. This is designed to break down the silos and walls that have hindered the business in the past, and replace them with pipelines and bridges.

{% include aligner.html images="data-dojo/handshake-2009195-small.png" column="auto" %}

# Our First Workshop

We launched the Data Dojo with our first workshop on July 20th, 2022, and it was a huge success! We had eighteen members in attendance, and we covered the following topics:
- Introductions around the room
- What we're doing here, and why it matters
- The importance of speed and accuracy in data analysis, and what we mean by "speed" and "accuracy"
- Data driven decision makers:
  - What they **do know**
  - What they often **don't know**
- The current paradigm and state of data analysis at DMU
- The new paradigm — our vision for the future
- Our plans for turning that vision into a reality
- Testimonials from four Data Dojo members who had already been using Power BI in their day-to-day jobs, experienced first-hand the benefits of data-driven decision making, and successfully collaborated on at least one Power BI project with one or more colleagues from other departments
- Our next steps
  - Added everyone who attended the workshop to our private Yammer group, and encouraged them to introduce themselves, ask questions, share ideas, and vote on dates and topics for future workshops
  - Provided a list of Power BI learning resources for those who wanted to dive in right away

# Our Second Workshop

We held our second Data Dojo workshop about a month later, this time with twenty members in attendance! Here's an outline of what we covered:
- **The Five Types of Data Analytics:**
  1. Descriptive — "What happened, where, and when?"
  2. Diagnostic — "Why did it happen?"
  3. Predictive — "What will happen in the future?"
  4. Prescriptive — "What should we do about it?"
  5. Cognitive — "How can we do it better?"
- **The Data Analytics Cycle**
  1. Requirements gathering
  2. Data ingestion and processing
  3. Data exploration
  4. Data analysis
  5. Deploy analytics solution
  6. Request and process feedback
  7. Optimize solution
  8. Repeat
- **Structured vs. Unstructured Data**
  - Definitions
  - Examples
- **Better Instruction Through Data** — A presentation by one of our members from outside the IT department, which included:
  - A live demo of some of the reports he had made using curated datasets provided by the IT department
  - Stories of how several of his reports had already made a significant impact on the way his department operates on a day-to-day basis
  - Examples of some challenges he has encountered working with data, and how he overcame them by utilizing our learning resources and collaborating with other members of the Data Dojo from both his own department and other departments

{% include aligner.html images="data-dojo/fu-3624167-cropped.jpg" column="auto" %}

# Resources

- [Power BI learning resources for Data Dojo members]()
- Workshop slide decks:
  - [first workshop]()
  - [second workshop]()
